### FSQL - File System Query Language

FSQL was originally designed as a meta-langiage for PAKE, a distributed package
management and distribution software for Python.

It has SQL-like syntax, no flow-control keywords and is not Turing complete.
It main and only purpose is to make queries on the filesystem - e.g. creating directories,
moving files, removing directory trees etc.

### Syntax

FSQL has simple syntax:

    DIRECTIVE operand [operand ...]

where directive is a keyword known to your FSQL implementation and operands are arguments required by it.

### Directives

Reference implementation supports following directives:

* `CP {:file} {:destination}`,
* `MV {:file} {:destination}`,
* `RM /path/to/file`,
* `MKD /path/to/directory`,
* `MKDS /path/to/directory`,
* `RMD /path/to/directory`,
* `RMTREE /path/to/directoy`,

&nbsp;

    CP ./foo/__init__.py /usr/lib/python3.3/site-packages/foo/__init__.py

This will copy a file from one location to another.

    CP ./foo/__init__.py /usr/lib/python3.3/site-packages/foo/

If second path is a directory name will be taken from first path.
If a directory destination does not exist transaction will fail.
If the destination file exists it will be overwritten.

&nbsp;

    MOVE ./foo/__init__.py /usr/lib/python3.3/site-packages/__init__.py

This will move a file from one location to another.

    MOVE ./foo/__init__.py /usr/lib/python3.3/site-packages/

If second path is a directory name will be taken from first path.
If a destination directory does not exist transaction will fail.
If the destination file exists it will be overwritten.

&nbsp;

    MKD /path/to/directory/you/want/to/create

Creates a directory.
This directive will fail if at least one of the intermediate directories does not exist e.g.
will fail if only `/path/to/directory` exists and `/you/want/to` does not exist.
In case the destination directory already exists directive does not fail but counts as succeded.

    MKDS /path/to/directory/you/want/to/create

This is extended version of `MKD` directive - it will create all required intermediate directories.

&nbsp;

    RMD /path/to/directory/you/want/to/remove

This will remove the directory the path points to.
Directive will fail if the directory is not empty.

    RMTREE /path/to/directory/you/want/to/remove

is extended version of `RMD` and will remove the path even if it's not empty.

In both cases the directive will fail if path is not a directory.

----

### Absolute and relative paths

FSQL files contain directives that may work with either absolute or relative paths.
Interpreters for FSQL should provide a way to set arbitrary directory as current working
directory.


----

&nbsp;

**Copyright 2013 (c) Marek Marecki**
