### Nest API structure

Here is shown API exposed by the nest.

    ROOT = ./.pakenest

    ROOT/meta.json
    ROOT/dependencies.json
    ROOT/files.json
    ROOT/install.fsrl
    ROOT/update.fsrl
    ROOT/remove.fsrl
    ROOT/versions.json
    ROOT/versions/:version/meta.json
    ROOT/versions/:version/dependencies.json
    ROOT/versions/:version/build.tar.xz


`build.tar.xz` contains:

* files and directories listed in `files.json`,
* `install.fsrl`, `update.fsrl` and `remove.fsrl` files,

&nbsp;

#### Dependencies

Dependencies are packages which must be installed with the selected package to ensure its
proper working. `dependencies.json` is the file containing a list of these packages.
Each dependency is a dictionary containing few pieces of data:

* `name`        - name of the package,
* `origin`      - URL of the origin of the package,
* `min-version` - minimal version of the dependency that must installed,
* `max-version` - maximal version of the dependency that should be installed,


**`name`**

This field contains name of the package to be downloaded.
In theory, this should be enough to fetch the package.
However, in real world package names can conflict so setting just package name as
a dependency identifier is a *bad* practice.  
Best way to ensure correct package is being fetched is to specify origin of the package.

> TODO: implement name-conflict resolution code


**`origin`**

List of mirrors of the origin are generated dynamically by looking up origin URL in
`aliens.json` file.
If origin cannot be found in the list of aliens known by network it is treated as the only mirror available.


**`min-version`**

Minimal version of the package needed.


**`max-version`**

Maximal version of the package.


----

#### Dependency tree

Each dependency may have its own dependencies which then will be processed.
After full list of deps is created (no more dependencies can be found) an install transaction is
prepared and executed.


----

#### Example dependecy list

Here is a list of example project `foo`:

    [
        {
            "name":     "bar",
            "origin":   "http://pake.example.org",
            "min":      "2.4.8"
        },
        {
            "name":     "baz",
            "origin":   "http://pake.przyklad.org"
        }
    ]

----

[Index](../index.mdown)
